all right let me uh just bring you up to
speed with some of the latest lines that
was brought to us a short while ago by
our correspondent hanni Mahmud in Gaza
that the Naser Hospital in Gaza has now
been stormed by Israeli forces this was
after it was shelled and of course all
of this happening as the world awaits
for an anticipated Israeli ground
offensive into Rafa one that's prompted
warnings from several countries
including now Australia New Zealand and
Canada well to discuss this more Anthony
Lowenstein joins us he's a journalist
and author of The Palestine laboratory a
book on Israel's arms and surveillance
industry joins us now from Sydney good
to have you with us Anthony so just to
give some background to my first
question we had on January the 28th 11
cabinet ministers attend an event
advocating the repopulation of Gaza with
Israeli settlers and the and and the
departure of gazans are the concerns
that Israel actually wants to displace
and not just evacuate garen's valid when
you look at that you look at the
statement by the Israeli Finance
Minister on December the 31st where he
was quoted as saying garans should be
encouraged to
immigrate I mean the short answer is yes
and that's just not really an opinion
it's based on Netanyahu down countless
is ministers and I might add a large
sway to the Israeli Jewish public that
there's really an intention here to make
Gaza so unlivable which essentially is
what it's become in vast parts of Gaza
that really Palestinians have little
choice now the question is of course
where do they go and Israel has been
trying for months to negotiate some kind
of deal which essentially means bribing
them with money and arms to various
Nations including Egypt other neighbors
and countries further a field and I read
in the last 24 hours that's not
confirmed that there's talk about some
kind of Egyptian built buffer zone of
sorts between wi the Sinai essentially
between Gaza and Egypt now that suggests
some kind of possible movement and
ultimately Egypt can be bought because
Egypt receives huge amounts of money
every year from the US and Israel is a
close Ally of Egypt and The Siege on
Gaza for years has been imposed by Egypt
and Israel so this is the really deep
concern and I feel like too much of the
world does not take that threat
seriously Anthony I spoke to a doctor
yesterday in Gaza who was talking to me
about how they haven't received the
usual supplies in a while is the
disruption of food and Medicine linked
to what you're talking
about there's a long history of this you
know at the beginning of the Israeli and
Egyptian impos Siege in 2007 there was
literally a document that was leaked a
few years after that said that Israel
was trying to put Palestinians in Gaza
on a diet that's their words and they
were very careful how many calories of
in food would transported into Gaza
people would not starve to death but
they would not get particularly more
calories than is's required to not die
this is the level of dehumanization that
exists within the Israeli government
this of course was a government of many
many years ago the current situation is
that there are serious threats of huge
amounts of people starving Mass disease
not my opinion based on every single
human rights organization both in Gaza
and those who report nearby this is a
real threat and the idea that there is
not massive unrelenting pressure on
Israel not just to end the war but to
take food into Gaza to get trucks into
Gaza I mean I have friends in Gaza in
Rafa who have regularly spoken to me or
been in touch in the last months really
since October but particularly in the
last few weeks who are not starving to
death but they find it unbelievably hard
to find food there is no food there's
not enough food how is this not becoming
one of the great scandals of our time it
clearly should be right Anthony does the
investigation by the Israeli newspaper
haret published on February the 4th
indic indicate as well that Israeli the
Israeli military uses or has used
psyclops as part of their policy to
achieve their
goals one of the things that been very
clear um for the Israeli military
strategy if you can call it that since
October 7 is they realized pretty
quickly that they're on the back foot
that although there was some Global
sympathy after October 7 in the attacks
by hamus that quickly switched after
Israel's unrelenting massacres in Gaza
so what they started doing is running
very very graphic telegram that um
messaging app groups Distributing huge
amounts of gory images of dead Garin to
huge amounts of Israelis there are huge
amounts of other telegram groups that
I've seen just circulated by Israelis
themselves with hundreds of thousands of
followers which literally just shows
dead and killed Palestinians and that's
within Israel globally there is growing
evidence that I've documented and others
have as well of Israeli Le
disinformation campaigns we hear a lot
in the west about Russia and China
spreading disinformation and election
meddling which is true we hear far less
about what Israel is doing both within
its own country and far wider this is a
threat because we don't really know
exactly often the source of it Beyond
and this was in hits recently as you
rightly say Sammy that Israeli military
realizes they have lost the information
War not losing lost and the way they're
trying to challenge that is to spread
huge amounts of disinformation about
Hamas about Palestinians about the fact
that every Palestinian Gaza allegedly is
a threat or is a terrorist I mean stuff
that people are not buying so that
really is a problem and I think it needs
to be far greater examined than it has
been all right thanks so much Anthony
Lowenstein